.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Copyright 2020-2022, 2024 Arm Limited and/or its affiliates <open-source-office@arm.com>
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0 AND LicenseRef-Patent-license

.. term:: Algorithm

    A finite sequence of steps to perform a particular operation.

    In this specification, an algorithm is a :term:`cipher` or a related function.
    Other texts call this a cryptographic mechanism.

.. term:: Byte

    In this specification, a unit of storage comprising eight bits, also called an octet.

.. term:: API

    Application Programming Interface.

.. term:: Cipher

    An algorithm used for encryption or decryption with a :term:`symmetric` key.

.. term:: Key agreement

    An algorithm for two or more parties to establish a common secret key.

.. term:: Key identifier

    A reference to a cryptographic key. Key identifiers in the |API| are 32-bit integers.

.. term:: Key type

    Key metadata that describes the structure and content of a key.

.. term:: Key policy

    Key metadata that describes and restricts what a key can be used for.

.. term:: Lifetime

    Key metadata that describes when a key is destroyed.

.. scterm:: Implementation defined

    Behavior that is not defined by the architecture, but is defined and documented by individual implementations.

.. scterm:: Specification defined

    Behavior that is defined by this specification.

.. term:: Multi-part operation

    An :term:`API` which splits a single cryptographic operation into a sequence of separate steps.

.. term:: Single-part function

    An :term:`API` that implements the cryptographic operation in a single function call.

.. term:: Keystore

    A hardware or software component that protects, stores, and manages cryptographic keys.

.. term:: Nonce

    Used as an input for certain :term:`AEAD` algorithms.
    Nonces must not be reused with the same key because this can break a cryptographic protocol.

.. term:: Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data
    :abbr: AEAD

    A type of encryption that
    provides confidentiality and authenticity of data using :term:`symmetric` keys.

.. term:: Initialization vector
    :abbr: IV

    An additional input that is not part of the message. It is used to prevent an attacker from making any
    correlation between cipher text and plain text.

    This specification uses the term for such initial inputs
    in all contexts. For example, the initial counter in CTR mode is called the IV.

.. term:: Cryptoprocessor

    The component that performs cryptographic operations.
    A cryptoprocessor might contain a :term:`keystore` and countermeasures against a range of physical and timing attacks.

.. term:: Hash

    A cryptographic hash function, or the value returned by such a function.

.. term:: Message digest

    A :term:`hash` of a message. Used to determine if a message has been tampered.

.. term:: Signature

    The output of a digital signature scheme that uses an :term:`asymmetric` keypair. Used to establish who produced a message.

.. term:: Key size

    The size of a key as defined by common conventions for each key type.
    For keys that are built from several numbers of strings, this is the size of a particular one of these numbers or strings.

    This specification expresses key sizes in bits.

.. term:: Key Derivation Function
    :abbr: KDF

    Key Derivation Function. An algorithm for deriving keys from secret material.

.. term:: PSA

    Platform Security Architecture

.. term:: Message Authentication Code
    :abbr: MAC

    A short piece of information used to authenticate a message.
    It is created and verified using a :term:`symmetric` key.

.. term:: HMAC

    A type of :term:`MAC` that uses a cryptographic key with a :term:`hash` function.

.. term:: Non-extractable key

    A key with a :term:`key policy` that prevents it from being read by ordinary means.

.. term:: Persistent key

    A key that is stored in protected non-volatile memory.

    See :secref:`key-lifetimes`.

.. term:: Salt

    Used as an input for certain algorithms, such as key derivations.

.. term:: Symmetric

    A type of cryptographic algorithm that uses a single key. A symmetric key can be used with
    a block cipher or a stream cipher.

.. term:: Asymmetric

    See :term:`Public-key cryptography`.

.. term:: Public-key cryptography

    A type of cryptographic system that uses key pairs. A keypair consists of a (secret) private key
    and a public key (not secret). A public-key cryptographic algorithm can be used for key distribution
    and for digital signatures.

.. term:: Volatile key

    A key that has a short lifespan and is guaranteed not to exist after a restart of an application instance.

    See :secref:`key-lifetimes`.

.. term:: No isolation

    Property of an implementation in which there is no security boundary between the application and the
    cryptoprocessor.

    See :secref:`isolation`.

.. term:: Isolation

    Property of an implementation in which there is a security boundary between the application and the
    cryptoprocessor.

    See :secref:`isolation`.

.. term:: Cryptoprocessor isolation

    Property of an implementation in which there is a security boundary between the application and the
    cryptoprocessor, but the cryptoprocessor does not communicate with other applications.

    See :secref:`isolation`.

.. term:: Caller isolation

    Property of an implementation in which there are multiple application instances, with a security
    boundary between the application instances, as well as between the cryptoprocessor and the
    application instances.

    See :secref:`isolation`.

.. term:: Post-Quantum Cryptography
    :abbr: PQC

    A cryptographic scheme that relies on mathematical problems that do not have efficient algorithms for either classical or quantum computing.

.. term:: Secure element
    :abbr: SE

    A hardware component or subsystem that is protected by design from unauthorized access, used to run a limited set of security services, and securely store confidential and cryptographic data.

.. term:: Cryptographic accelerator

    A hardware component or subsystem that provides accelerated implementation of cryptographic functionality.

.. term:: Built-in key

    A cryptographic key that is present in the implementation, which was not created by the application.
    For example:

    *   An immutable system or platform key.
    *   A key derived from from a system secret.
    *   A key provisioned by another component in the system for use by the application.
